README.md, before:


# ccwc Tool

Welcome to the `ccwc` tool! This project is a Go implementation of the classic Unix `wc` (word count) command-line tool, designed to work on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Like its sibling `wc`, `ccwc` is used to count bytes, characters, words, and lines in files or from standard input.

## Features

- **Count Bytes (-c)**: Use the `c` flag to get the total number of bytes in a file.
- **Count Lines (-l)**: The `l` flag provides the number of lines in the file.
- **Count Words (-w)**: Use the `w` flag to count the number of words in the file.
- **Count Characters (-m)**: The `m` flag counts characters in the file, supporting multibyte characters.
- **Default Mode**: When no flags are provided, the tool will display the byte, word, and line counts for the file.
- **Support for Standard Input**: The tool can also read from standard input if no file is provided, making it useful in pipelines.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/rafaelmgr12/cwcc-tool.git
    cd ccwc-tool
    ```

2. Build the tool using Go:

    ```bash
    go build -o ccwc
    ```

3. You can now run the `ccwc` tool on your system.

## Usage

`ccwc` provides the following options:

- Count the number of bytes in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -c filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of lines in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -l filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of words in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -w filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of characters in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -m filename.txt
    ```

- Default: Get the line, word, and byte count without any flags:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc filename.txt
    ```

- Read from standard input:

    ```bash
    cat filename.txt | ./ccwc -l
    ```

## Example

Here’s how you can use `ccwc` with a sample text file:

1. **File `test.txt`:**

    ```text
    Go is an open-source programming language that makes it easy to build simple, reliable, and efficient software.
    ```

2. **Running `ccwc` on `test.txt`:**

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -w test.txt
    ```

    **Output:**

    ```bash
    12 test.txt
    ```

    This shows that `test.txt` contains 12 words.

## Using `ccwc` as a CLI Tool (Setting it in your PATH)

To make `ccwc` available as a command-line tool that you can run from any directory (similar to `wc`), follow these steps to add it to your system's `PATH`:

### Linux/macOS

1. After building `ccwc`, move the binary to a directory that's in your system's `PATH` (for example, `/usr/local/bin`):

    ```bash
    sudo mv ./ccwc /usr/local/bin/ccwc
    ```

2. Verify that the tool is now accessible from anywhere:

    ```bash
    ccwc -h
    ```

   If you see the help output for `ccwc`, you've successfully set it up!

### Windows

1. After building `ccwc`, move the binary to a directory that is included in your system's `PATH`. For example, you can place it in `C:\Program Files\`:

    ```powershell
    Move-Item .\ccwc.exe 'C:\Program Files\ccwc.exe'
    ```

2. Add the directory to the system `PATH`:

    1. Open the **Start Menu**, search for "Environment Variables," and select "Edit the system environment variables."
    2. In the "System Properties" window, click "Environment Variables."
    3. Under "System Variables," find the `Path` variable, select it, and click "Edit."
    4. Click "New" and add the path to where you moved `ccwc.exe` (e.g., `C:\Program Files\`).
    5. Click "OK" to close all windows.

3. Verify that `ccwc` is now accessible from the command prompt:

    ```bash
    ccwc -h
    ```

   If you see the help output for `ccwc`, you've successfully set it up!

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you would like to contribute, feel free to fork the repository, make your changes, and open a pull request. Please ensure that your changes are well-documented and that you write tests for any new functionality.

1. Fork this repository
2. Create your feature branch:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature/YourFeatureName
    ```

3. Commit your changes:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Add feature description"
    ```

4. Push to the branch:

    ```bash
    git push origin feature/YourFeatureName
    ```

5. Open a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.

Commit message:

doc: update README.md with new motivations and features
- Added sections on cross-platform compatibility, efficiency, usability, and extendibility of the `ccwc-tool`.

README.md, after:


# ccwc Tool

Welcome to the `ccwc` tool! This project is a Go implementation of the classic Unix `wc` (word count) command-line tool, designed to work on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Like its sibling `wc`, `ccwc` is used to count bytes, characters, words, and lines in files or from standard input.

The `ccwc-tool` was developed as a modern, cross-platform alternative with several key motivations driving its design:

- **Cross-platform Compatibility**:

    Designed to work seamlessly on Windows, macOS, and Linux. Go's portability ensures the tool runs efficiently on any platform without dependency issues, making it ideal for developers and system administrators who work across diverse environments.

- **Lightweight and Efficient**:

    Written in Go, `ccwc-tool` takes advantage of Go’s lightweight, statically compiled binaries and high performance. It operates quickly with minimal system overhead, making it suitable for high-performance environments where resource efficiency is crucial.

- **Enhanced Usability**:

    While maintaining the core functionalities of `wc`, `ccwc-tool` introduces additional input methods (like reading from standard input) and provides more intuitive flag handling, offering a simple yet powerful utility for analyzing text files on various operating systems.

- **Extendibility**:

    Its simple and modular design makes `ccwc-tool` easy to extend and contribute to. Developers can add new features or improve performance, ensuring the tool evolves with the community's needs.

## Features

- **Count Bytes (-c)**: Use the `c` flag to get the total number of bytes in a file.
- **Count Lines (-l)**: The `l` flag provides the number of lines in the file.
- **Count Words (-w)**: Use the `w` flag to count the number of words in the file.
- **Count Characters (-m)**: The `m` flag counts characters in the file, supporting multibyte characters.
- **Default Mode**: When no flags are provided, the tool will display the byte, word, and line counts for the file.
- **Support for Standard Input**: The tool can also read from standard input if no file is provided, making it useful in pipelines.

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/rafaelmgr12/cwcc-tool.git
    cd ccwc-tool
    ```

2. Build the tool using Go:

    ```bash
    go build -o ccwc
    ```

3. You can now run the `ccwc` tool on your system.

## Usage

`ccwc` provides the following options:

- Count the number of bytes in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -c filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of lines in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -l filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of words in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -w filename.txt
    ```

- Count the number of characters in a file:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -m filename.txt
    ```

- Default: Get the line, word, and byte count without any flags:

    ```bash
    ./ccwc filename.txt
    ```

- Read from standard input:

    ```bash
    cat filename.txt | ./ccwc -l
    ```

## Example

Here’s how you can use `ccwc` with a sample text file:

1. **File `test.txt`:**

    ```text
    Go is an open-source programming language that makes it easy to build simple, reliable, and efficient software.
    ```

2. **Running `ccwc` on `test.txt`:**

    ```bash
    ./ccwc -w test.txt
    ```

    **Output:**

    ```bash
    12 test.txt
    ```

    This shows that `test.txt` contains 12 words.

## Using `ccwc` as a CLI Tool (Setting it in your PATH)

To make `ccwc` available as a command-line tool that you can run from any directory (similar to `wc`), follow these steps to add it to your system's `PATH`:

### Linux/macOS

1. After building `ccwc`, move the binary to a directory that's in your system's `PATH` (for example, `/usr/local/bin`):

    ```bash
    sudo mv ./ccwc /usr/local/bin/ccwc
    ```

2. Verify that the tool is now accessible from anywhere:

    ```bash
    ccwc -h
    ```

   If you see the help output for `ccwc`, you've successfully set it up!

### Windows

1. After building `ccwc`, move the binary to a directory that is included in your system's `PATH`. For example, you can place it in `C:\Program Files\`:

    ```powershell
    Move-Item .\ccwc.exe 'C:\Program Files\ccwc.exe'
    ```

2. Add the directory to the system `PATH`:

    1. Open the **Start Menu**, search for "Environment Variables," and select "Edit the system environment variables."
    2. In the "System Properties" window, click "Environment Variables."
    3. Under "System Variables," find the `Path` variable, select it, and click "Edit."
    4. Click "New" and add the path to where you moved `ccwc.exe` (e.g., `C:\Program Files\`).
    5. Click "OK" to close all windows.

3. Verify that `ccwc` is now accessible from the command prompt:

    ```bash
    ccwc -h
    ```

   If you see the help output for `ccwc`, you've successfully set it up!

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you would like to contribute, feel free to fork the repository, make your changes, and open a pull request. Please ensure that your changes are well-documented and that you write tests for any new functionality.

1. Fork this repository
2. Create your feature branch:

    ```bash
    git checkout -b feature/YourFeatureName
    ```

3. Commit your changes:

    ```bash
    git commit -m "Add feature description"
    ```

4. Push to the branch:

    ```bash
    git push origin feature/YourFeatureName
    ```

5. Open a pull request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more details.
